Test on HTML & CSS
Section A – Theory Questions (Total: 30 Marks)

1.What is semantic HTML? Name at least 4 semantic tags and explain their usage.
A.Semantic HTML is the use of HTML tags that have a meaningful name and clearly describe the role or purpose of the content they contain. 
Semantic HTML Tags
	i.<header>
	ii.<main>
	iii.<article>
	iv.<footer>
2.How does the box model work in CSS? Explain with a diagram and example.
A.The CSS Box Model is a fundamental concept that describes how elements are structured and how spacing is calculated on a web page. Each HTML element is considered as a rectangular box, which consists of the following areas (from inside out):

Content – The actual content of the box (text, images, etc.).

Padding – Space between the content and the border.

Border – A border that wraps around the padding and content.

Margin – The outermost layer, creating space between the element and other elements.
3.Explain the difference between inline, block, and inline-block elements with examples.
A. Block Elements
Start on a new line and take up the full width available (by default).

You can set width, height, margin, and padding.
Inline Elements
Do not start on a new line; they flow within text.

You cannot set width or height (padding and margin work horizontally but not vertically).
Inline-Block Elements
Behave like inline elements (stay in the same line),
but you can set width, height, margin, and padding like a block element.
4.What is the role of z-index in CSS? When does it not work?
A.Elements with a higher z-index value will appear in front of elements with a lower z-index value.
It only works on elements that have a position value other than static (e.g., relative, absolute, fixed, or sticky).
5.What is the difference between internal, external, and inline CSS? Which one is best for large projects and why?
A.internal css - internal css is used by style tag inside the style tag css code will be written
inline css- inside the html tag and element we can directly apply css property
external css- in external css we have to create a separate file for code the css property and it will connect by link tag
6.Explain media queries in CSS. How are they used for responsive design?
A.in css media query used for make the website responsive for multiple divice like mobile ,tab, laptop etc....
basic syntax of media query
 @media screen and (max-width: 768px) {
  body {
    background-color: lightblue;
    font-size: 16px;
  }
}
7.How can we create a fixed navigation bar that stays at the top while scrolling?
A.for create a fixed navigation bar we have to use the css property - position: fixed; then it will be fixed and cant move
8.What are pseudo-classes in CSS? Give examples of at least 3 pseudo-classes with explanations.
A.A pseudo-class in CSS is a keyword added to selectors that specifies a special state of an element.
example of pseudo classes :visited – Styles visited links.

:nth-child(n) – Styles the nth child of a parent element.

:last-child – Styles the last child element.
9.Explain the difference between em, rem, px, and % in CSS units.
A.In CSS, units like em, rem, px, and % are used to define sizes (fonts, margins, padding, etc.). The key difference is whether they are relative or absolute.
1rem = 16px 
Use % or em for layouts to make them responsive.
10.What are the advantages of using Flexbox over traditional float-based layouts?
A.Advantage of using flex-box Easy Vertical and Horizontal Centering.Direction Control (Row or Column).Responsive Design Made Easy,Space Distribution and Alignment, Equal Height Columns